#######
License
#######

FIXME: Should license include stipulation about including version
and/or release date of documentation? Or perhaps a recommendation?

FIXME: Review license and make sure it makes some kind of legal sense?

The contents of this directory and all sub-directories (if viewed in
source form) or any documentation generated from this source in any
format (whether in HTML or PDF) is Copyright Shawn M. Chapla, 2021, and
is *not* released under the GPL, the BSD license, the MIT license, or
any other license used anywhere else in this repository for code or any
other assets. As such, this documentation may only be reproduced and
distributed as per standard copyright regulations with the following
allowances and restrictions.

Any code examples in this documentation may be reproduced freely for any
purpose, commercial or otherwise, without any prior written approval or
need for citation. The documentation text itself may also be reproduced
freely, for any purpose, commercial or otherwise, provided that a) it is
cited in a manner appropriate to the format in which the documentation
text is being reproduced and at a minimum must indicate that the
material is from the "official e4 documentation" (and do so making
direct use of the phrase "official e4 documentation") and b) no claim is
made that the author of the reproduction is the author of the reproduced
documentation.

Any documentation not included in this official documentation should not
be considered official and must not misrepresent itself as being the
work of Shawn M. Chapla or as having any official association with the
e4 project unless those things are actually the case.

THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
